inquire examine explore explore
inquire investigate
which in turn is to clarify or follow
a track
rather, asking questions is a
pretty common exercise that we practice
everyone from small but there are questions
of questions there are those who are dedicated
professionally to that matter of
try to solve them
as william chemical rubbish
mathematician and teacher and researcher a
Bogota, despite his young age
has a doctorate in science from a
German university and also two
doctorates
despite this he is still a man
simple that does not forget its origin was born
in Bogota in 1976
in a family within a family
very humble my grandmother washed clothes my
Grandpa worked in construction after
worked on the magnet my uncles my aunts my
mom had to go out and sell food and
things like that my boy dream was
not being superhero I wanted to be the
spiderman and superman and that's why I
I opened my head several times because
fell from the trees
I am thinking that I could speak
Miguelito says that pure orthopedics
that is not natural in us
I wanted to be a doctor like all
students of colombia of baccalaureate
I wanted to be an engineer
and I applied to various universities
for medicine and it does not happen because I grew up
very bad as I was doing well in chemistry I'm going
to study chemistry I introduced myself to chemistry
only once and in the uis and as in
Colombian god presents himself to study
basic sciences because to be and is that
so that Guillermo would realize
what was his future had to leave until
the habana cuba where he met a
Colombian there I met a teacher
Colombian and I think that at that moment
my life changed my life with my life
personal and my work and scientific life
academic in every way changed
and I think it's very interesting
because I had to leave Colombia to
know a Colombian and that shows that
in Colombia we do not talk so much
I enjoy a lot dictating my classes
because in the classes and in fact I take the
classes as a tool for
discover new questions for
discover what others have not done or
what could be done better is to say in
the same class one by one they come up
research questions and then
can go back with the students of
annie very interesting one can
integrate students in the
resolution of those questions and boots
the investigation and then one leads
forward the knowledge and who says
that from chemistry there are no contributions to the
society
not only chemistry is in the
laboratory but that chemistry is a
way of seeing the world and that same way
to see the world can not apply
even in the market place when a
buy things or when the newsletter I
always when one sees the reality of
turn one can be very critical and that
criticism is left one the thought
scientific if Colombia had
scientific thinking we would not kill ourselves
so much good teacher at the end of the day that
it is mathematical chemistry that brings you
to whom this is a complex issue
mathematical chemistry is to try to see the
chemistry from the point of view the
mathematics is to think chemistry with with
mathematical structure try
find the basics of chemistry
with a mathematical support is not to use the
mathematics just because that does it
many people use a for example a
statistical software that he developed
some statistic or use some
mathematical methodology apply to the
chemistry that's not mathematical chemistry
many say that that's me I think it's
something else is to use mathematics but
think chemistry mathematically
analytically
so trying to find
relationships between things that's what
I believe that mathematical chemistry is
science has not been an easy subject for
many but for William apply his
critical thinking is your living that
good that my family life is like that so
unless I'm newly married not here what
you can see
and I got married on June 18 and my wife
has two children and already had a first
married and he has two children and I
I have a lot of fun with them because they do not have
ten years and the other has six
because in children he does not find
questions as long as for adults
are usually annoying but there's the
as fresh questions about the
which one can work one
can create scientific thinking in
children and that seems to me
fantastic with my wife too
we discuss many things we read books
together and we discuss them we do not advance very
fast because we get to discuss
three lines but well that 's the idea
and teacher the student exceeds the teacher
results that we show in
Canada are now part of the new
edition of the book that I studied when
I was in college that seems to me
something very beautiful and I think it's good
tell it because those books that one
think they are made in europe in usa and
they have things from Colombia and it's not just my
case there are many people in Colombia who
does science and that is in the books
but that people do not know about that and
that's why these things these interviews
these means of disseminating what he does
the people nolan and I find it very good